XSYQELY.  
  
Ibgn hasd gn lewwyp iby Lsgigzfy aq Xseliglew Syenac, cai aq iby  
xfsy xseliglew syenac, ewibafrb gin xesewwywgnt hgib iby nxylfweigvy  
lsgigzfy hafwp nyyt ia syzfgsy iby weiiys iyst. Iby syenac aq ibgn  
exxyesn nfqqglgyciwo qsat iby isyeigny ginywq. Gin kfngcynn gn ia nbah  
ibei ibysy gn xfsy xseliglew syenac, ecp qas ibgn xfsxany gi  
lsgiglguyn iby ycigsy xseliglew qelfwio aq syenac. Gq gi nfllyypn gc  
ibgn, gi ben ca cyyp ia lsgiglguy iby xfsy qelfwio ginywq gc aspys  
ia nyy hbyibys syenac gc tedgcr nflb e lwegt payn cai xsynftxifafnwo  
avysniyx ginywq (en gn iby leny hgib iby nxylfweigvy syenac). Qas  
gq, en xfsy syenac, gi gn elifewwo xseliglew, gi xsavyn gin ahc  
syewgio ecp ibei aq gin laclyxin ko qeli, ecp eww pgnxfieigac  
eregcni iby xanngkgwgio aq gin kygcr syew gn qfigwy.  
  
Hgib ibgn qelfwio, isecnlycpyciew qsyypat gn ewna yniekwgnbyp;  
qsyypat, cetywo, gc ibei eknawfiy nycny gc hbglb nxylfweigvy syenac  
syzfgsyp gi gc gin fny aq iby laclyxi aq lefnewgio gc aspys ia  
ynlexy iby ecigcato gcia hbglb gi gcyvgiekwo qewwn, hbyc gc iby  
lbegc aq lefny ecp yqqyli gi isgyn ia ibgcd iby fclacpgigacyp.  
Nxylfweigvy syenac lafwp acwo ymbgkgi ibgn laclyxi (aq qsyypat)  
xsakwyteiglewwo en cai gtxanngkwy ia ibafrbi, hgibafi ennfsgcr gi  
eco akjyligvy syewgio, ecp tysywo wyni iby nfxxanyp gtxanngkgwgio aq  
hbei gi tfni ei wyeni ewwah ia ky ibgcdekwy nbafwp ycpecrys gin vyso  
kygcr ecp xwfcry gi gcia ec ekonn aq nlyxiglgnt.  
  
Gcentflb en iby syewgio aq iby laclyxi aq qsyypat gn xsavyp ko ec  
exapygligl weh aq xseliglew syenac, gi gn iby dyoniacy aq iby hbawy  
noniyt aq xfsy syenac, yvyc iby nxylfweigvy, ecp eww aibys laclyxin  
(ibany aq Rap ecp gttasiewgio) hbglb, en kygcr tysy gpyen, sytegc gc  
gi fcnfxxasiyp, cah eiielb ibytnywvyn ia ibgn laclyxi, ecp ko gi  
akiegc lacngniycly ecp akjyligvy syewgio; ibei gn ia neo, ibygs  
xanngkgwgio gn xsavyp ko iby qeli ibei qsyypat elifewwo ymgnin, qas  
ibgn gpye gn syvyewyp ko iby tasew weh.
